A barber shop was,
was a male domain because you'd also get advice on sexual diseases because of
course everybody had like syphilis.
Oh,
right.
So this is a fake nose.
So everybody sort of lost their noses.
Okay.
So something you probably don't,
something you probably don't know about syphilis.
I don't know if we have that image of,
um,
of syphilis that I sent.
Um,
poor Jamie.
I told the,
I'm your booking manager,
Matt stags.
I said,
send these images to Jamie and don't tell them any contacts,
you know,
and you're like,
hell,
is this podcast going to be on?
Um,
but they lost their noses.
So syphilis,
um,
attack,
sort of the soft tissue and the image that I sent through,
which we'll show in a minute on the,
the guy has holes in his scalp as well.
Yeah.
It's a photograph that is a photograph from the 19th century.
So he actually,
he held onto his nose though.
So you could just cover that with a hat.
Oh,
but,
but it was,
it was incredibly painful.
And you,
Al Capone had syphilis and so you lost your mind.
It attacked the soft tissues to the brain.
It was really,
so people today,
you know,
I'll show these images on my Instagram or Twitter and people will be like,
wow,
I didn't know syphilis was so bad.
It's like people died from it all the time.
And the focus was also responsible for powdered wigs.
You know that story right now for an 18 cent?
No.
Yeah,
you got something when it was a,
I forget some noble person got syphilis and started wearing a wig and when they
started wearing wigs,
other people started to emulating them because they were the celebrities of the
kingdom.
I feel like this is a drunk history.
No,
she's real legitimate.
And the more wealthy you were like,
cause it's syphilis makes your hair fall out as well.
Yeah.
I mean it wasn't your fault.
Your teeth fall out and so the more wealthy you were,
the bigger and taller your wig would be.
That is where the term big wigs.
Oh,
that's interesting.
Yeah.
I knew that in the 18th century that the wigs were getting bigger as the,
like the fashions.
In fact,
um,
uh,
my husband illustrated book called the join link is at,
and as it's sort of like an 18th century newspaper and as the newspaper on moves
on,
the women would have to sit at the bottom of the carriage because their wigs
were so high in some cases,
but in the women had syphilis.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah,
absolutely.
Cause it would be passed on or so that's probably why they had wigs as well.
Yeah.
And I'm with syphilis,
you know,
your nose fell off and it was so prevalent in the 19th century that they had no
nose clubs.
So people would get together.
Yeah.
And they would,
in London they would share the fact that,
you know,
we don't,
yeah,
we lost her nose.
We have syphilis smell.
Anything either.
No.
I mean it was awful.
And actually one of the ways that they treated syphilis was through mercury,
which is very poisonous.
And so when you talk about the loss club writers,
and I don't know if that's the no nos glow,
but they might not have STDs with those
top hats and underwear.
Pull up the thing though about bigwigs.
Oh,
so I can show her.
Do you see that one right up there?
Oh,
oh yeah,
that's,
that's fine.
If you go up,
wait up Jamie and go.
Yes.
So that man didn't lose his notes for syphilis,
but that's an early form of a rhinoplasty that they,
that dates back to the renaissance and you'd have to stay in that position for
weeks.
While that grafted,
um,
I believe this man was injured,
had a cut of,
as for people just to listing,
there's a slice off of his arm that's connected to his nose and they have taped
and strapped his arm to the top of his head.
So he's to stay in this position while his,
the trunk of his arm grows into his face and then they're going to cut it and
remove it when it develops its own blood supply.
It's like,
it's like the nick,
if people have watched that show nick on,
they have a scene with us.
So yeah,
it was so uncomfortable on you're better off with no nos.
Yeah,
you might be better off.
And Mercury of course you would lose your teeth and it just really awful kinds
of things.
I did your now and how long did that last for the mercury thing?
Uh,
all the way into the 19th century.
And so there's a phrase,
a bunch of people died when they go,
hey guys,
this paper's still copying.
You know,
I mean based on the,
yeah.
Okay.
Syphilis hidden between powder.
Whey civil is ever going to leave 15 hundreds year of left people with patchy
hair loss.
Um,
go to go to the actual,
um,
the who was it was what?
Yeah.
So these nobleman,
they're all gross.
Disgusting people with STDs.
What about,
what is the name of the guy?
Hold on,
don't scroll.
Go back up here.
Yeah.
Okay.
There it is.
Louis the 14th,
only 17.
His mom started saying words baldest might hurt his reputation.
Louie hired 48 wig makers to save his image five years later.
King.
So,
but if you scroll down then likely had syphilis.
Boldman luckily had syphilis.
So this is what started it all out.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Yeah,
that's hideous to like.
Well,
there were some modern sensibilities,
like that just looks so bizarre.
Well,
not only,
yeah.
I mean,
everything's gross,
right?
No one's washing themselves.
They don't know what germs are.
Still forced to watch a Hollywood movie.
They're like,
oh,
it'd be so beautiful to live in the pet now.
We're such assholes with that is,
that drives me crazy when people want to pretend that it was so lovely.
There are terrible things about life today.
There absolutely are.
But this is the best time to be alive ever by far.
Yeah.
People say on,
is this the best time medically?
And it's like,
well,
hopefully that's always true.
Right.
Yet,
hopefully tomorrow is the,
is better than,
you know,
hopefully we're,
we're advancing and learning more or no.